Add ORT inference (#113)
huggingface/optimum: docs/source/onnxruntime/modeling_ort.mdx

an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Optimum Inference with ONNX Runtime

Optimum Inference is a utility package for building and running inference with accelerated runtime like ONNX Runtime. 
Optimum Inference can be used to load optimized models from the [Hugging Face Hub](hf.co/models) and create pipelines 
to run accelerated inference without rewriting your APIs.

## Switching from Transformers to Optimum Inference

The Optimum Inference models are API compatible with Hugging Face Transformers models. This means you can just replace your `AutoModelForXxx` class with the corresponding `ORTModelForXxx` class in `optimum`. For example, this is how you can use a question answering model in `optimum`: 

```diff
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, pipeline
-from transformers import AutoModelForQuestionAnswering
+from optimum.onnxruntime import ORTModelForQuestionAnswering

-model = AutoModelForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("deepset/roberta-base-squad2")

> +model = ORTModelForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("optimum/roberta-base-squad2")

Reviewer: Maybe we should add a comment that this is an ONNX model on the Hub?

Author: I added a coment

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("deepset/roberta-base-squad2")

onnx_qa = pipeline("question-answering",model=model,tokenizer=tokenizer)

question = "What's my name?"
context = "My name is Philipp and I live in Nuremberg."
pred = onnx_qa(question, context)
```

Optimum Inference also includes methods to convert vanilla Transformers models to optimized ones via the `from_pretrained("{model_id}",from_transformers=True)` method.

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, pipeline
from optimum.onnxruntime import ORTModelForSequenceClassification

# load model from hub and convert
model = ORTModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english",from_transformers=True)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english")

# create pipeline

> onnx_clx = pipeline("text-classification",model=model,tokenizer=tokenizer)

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
onnx_classifier = pipeline("text-classification",model=model,tokenizer=tokenizer)
```

result = onnx_clx(text="This is a great model")
```

You can find a complete walkhrough Optimum Inference for ONNX Runtime in this [notebook](xx).

### Working with the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://hf.co/models)

The Optimum model classes, e.g. [`~ORTModelForSequenceClassification`] are directly integrated with the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://hf.co/models)) meaning you can not only 

> load model from the Hub but also push your models to the Hub with `push_to_hub()` method. Below you find an example which pulls a vanilla transformers model 

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
load model from the Hub, but also push your models to the Hub with `push_to_hub()` method. Below is an example which downloads a vanilla Transformers model 
```

> from the Hub and converts it to an optimum model uses the `[~ORTQuantizer]` to quantize the model and pushes it back into a new repository.

Author: True removed it for now and added a TODO

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Optimum Inference with ONNX Runtime

> Optimum Inference is a utility package for building and running inference with accelerated runtime like ONNX Runtime. 

Reviewer 2: Do we have a package `optimum.inference`?

Author: removed the inference part

Optimum Inference can be used to load optimized models from the [Hugging Face Hub](hf.co/models) and create pipelines 
to run accelerated inference without rewriting your APIs.

## Switching from Transformers to Optimum Inference

The Optimum Inference models are API compatible with Hugging Face Transformers models. This means you can just replace your `AutoModelForXxx` class with the corresponding `ORTModelForXxx` class in `optimum`. For example, this is how you can use a question answering model in `optimum`: 

```diff
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, pipeline
-from transformers import AutoModelForQuestionAnswering
+from optimum.onnxruntime import ORTModelForQuestionAnswering

-model = AutoModelForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("deepset/roberta-base-squad2") # pytorch checkpoint
+model = ORTModelForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("optimum/roberta-base-squad2") # onnx checkpoint
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("deepset/roberta-base-squad2")

onnx_qa = pipeline("question-answering",model=model,tokenizer=tokenizer)

question = "What's my name?"
context = "My name is Philipp and I live in Nuremberg."
pred = onnx_qa(question, context)
```

> Optimum Inference also includes methods to convert vanilla Transformers models to optimized ones. Simply pass `from_transformers=True` to the `from_pretrained()` method, and your model will be loaded and converted to ONNX on-the-fly:

Reviewer 2: Is it really an "optimized" one?

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, pipeline
>>> from optimum.onnxruntime import ORTModelForSequenceClassification

# load model from hub and convert
>>> model = ORTModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english",from_transformers=True)
>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english")

# create pipeline
>>> onnx_classifier = pipeline("text-classification",model=model,tokenizer=tokenizer)

>>> result = onnx_classifier(text="This is a great model")
[{'label': 'POSITIVE', 'score': 0.9998838901519775}]
```

You can find a complete walkhrough Optimum Inference for ONNX Runtime in this [notebook](xx).

### Working with the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://hf.co/models)

The Optimum model classes like [`~ORTModelForSequenceClassification`] are integrated with the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://hf.co/models)), which means you can not only 
load model from the Hub, but also push your models to the Hub with `push_to_hub()` method. Below is an example which downloads a vanilla Transformers model 

> from the Hub and converts it to an optimum model and pushes it back into a new repository.

Reviewer 2: I think we should be more explicit and say that the model is in the onnx format (it is the case in the code snippet, but less clear here: what is an "optimum" model?).

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

> # Optimum Inference with Onnxrunime

Reviewer: turbo nit:
```suggestion
# Optimum Inference with ONNX Runtime
```

> Optimum Inference is a utility package for building and running inference with accleratored runtime like Onnxruntime. 

Reviewer: turbo nit:
```suggestion
Optimum Inference is a utility package for building and running inference with accelerated runtimes like ONNX Runtime. 
```

Optimum Inference can be used to load optimized models from the [Hugging Face Hub](hf.co/models) and create pipelines 

> to run acclerated inference without rewriting your APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to run accelerated inference without rewriting your APIs.
```

> ## Switching from Transfromers to Optimum Inference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Switching from Transformers to Optimum Inference
```

> The Optimum Inference models are API compatible with Transformers models, meaning you can just replace your `AutoFor*` with the optimum `OnnxFor*` class. 

Reviewer: Question: should we use `OnnxModelForXxx` instead of `OnnxForXxx`? Or if we only use ONNX Runtime, should it be `ORTModelForXxx`? In `transformers` we use `AutoModelForXxx` so adopting a similar convention might make sense

```suggestion
The Optimum Inference models are API compatible with Hugging Face Transformers models. This means you can just replace your `AutoModelForXxx` class with the corresponding `OnnxForXxx` class in `optimum`. For example, this is how you can use a question answering model in `optimum`: 
```

> ```diff

Reviewer: Awesome use of the diff - I love this example!

from transformers import AutoTokenizer, pipeline
-from transformers import AutoModelForQuestionAnswering
+from optimum.onnxruntime import OnnxForQuestionAnswering

-model = AutoModelForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("deepset/roberta-base-squad2")
+model = OnnxForQuestionAnswering.from_transformers("deepset/roberta-base-squad2")
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("deepset/roberta-base-squad2")

onnx_qa = pipeline("question-answering",model=model,tokenizer=tokenizer)

> question = "Whats my name?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
question = "What's my name?"
```

> context = "My Name is Philipp and I live in Nuremberg."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
context = "My name is Philipp and I live in Nuremberg."
```

pred = onnx_qa(question, context)
```

> Optimum Inference also includes methods to convert vanilla Transformers models to optimized models (`.from_transfromers`). 

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Optimum Inference also includes methods to convert vanilla Transformers models to optimized ones via the `from_transformers()` method.
```

After you have converted a model you can even `optimize` or `quantize` the model if it is supported by the runtime you use.

```python

> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, pipeline

Reviewer: We should use `>>>` for each line of code in the guides. This will allow `doc-builder` to generate Jupyter notebooks automatically for us

from optimum.onnxruntime import OnnxForSequenceClassification

# load model from hub and convert
model = OnnxForSequenceClassification.from_transformers("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english")
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english")

# optimize model
model.optimize()
# quantize model
model.quantize()

# create pipeline
onnx_clx = pipeline("text-classification",model=model,tokenizer=tokenizer)

result = onnx_clx(text="This is a great model")
```

> You can find a complete walkhrough optimum inference for Onnxruntime in this [notebook](xx).

Reviewer: turbo nit:
```suggestion
You can find a complete walkhrough Optimum Inference for ONNX Runtime in this [notebook](xx).
```

### Working with the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://hf.co/models)

> The optimum model classes, e.g. [`OnnxModel`] are directly integrated with the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://hf.co/models)) meaning you can not only 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Optimum model classes, e.g. [`OnnxModel`] are directly integrated with the [Hugging Face Model Hub](https://hf.co/models)) meaning you can not only 
```

> load model from the Hub but also push your models to the Hub with `push_to_hub` method. Below you find an example which pulls a vanilla transformers model 

Reviewer: turbo nit:
```suggestion
load model from the Hub but also push your models to the Hub with `push_to_hub()` method. Below you find an example which pulls a vanilla transformers model 
```

from the Hub and converts it to an optimum model and pushes it back into a new repository.

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer
from optimum.onnxruntime import OnnxForSequenceClassification

# load model from hub and convert
model = OnnxForSequenceClassification.from_transformers("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english")
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english")

# optimize model
model.optimize()
# quantize model
model.quantize()

# save converted model
model.save_pretrained("a_local_path_for_convert_onnx_model")
tokenizer.save_pretrained("a_local_path_for_convert_onnx_model")

# push model onnx model to HF Hub

> model.push_to_hub("a_local_path_for_convert_onnx_model",

Reviewer: Awesome example!
